Design Rationale -- Kathryn Lutz, Homework 4     
The current design contains four classes. OceanExplorer is responsible for launching the game, adding images to the map, and having the move-on-key-press functionality for the Columbus ship. Because OceanExplorer functions as main, it makes sense that this functionality is contained in this class. OceanMap is responsible for initializing the grid to islands and ocean water and also returning the current location of both kinds of ships. The placement of this functionality in this class was strategic so as to contain all of the grid functions in one class (and only one instance of the grid will be called for the game). Ship.java extends Observable as it is observed by each instance of the PirateShip class. I liked that all of the characteristics that were specific to just the Columbus ship are in Ship.java, and all of the functionality specific to the pirate ships are contained in the PirateShip class. The Columbus ship moves differently than the Pirate ship, so it was important that each time the Columbus ship moved, it could notify its observers and the pirate ships could move accordingly if possible. The update() function is in the pirate ship class in accordance with the Observable/Observer model as the pirate ships observe each action of the Columbus ship. I think this is a good design given the constraints of the game because it is easy to understand how each class individually contributes to the structure of the game. It is also possible to add more pirate ships, increase the number of tiles in the grid, add more islands, and shrink/enlarge the scale of the board using this design.
To support adding a button under stretch, I would add a reset function to OceanMap.java and the physical button to OceanExplorer which would call
reset() from OceanMap. Because OceanMap is responsible for setting all of the values on the board to island or ocean, it would be logical to change all of the values of the board in this class. The OceanExplorer class would be responsible for setting the island values to images of islands/ocean values to images of the ocean given that the other images for the ships are loaded into the ImageView in this class. The function in OceanExplorer would just iterate through each value of the instance of the grid it creates and place an "island" or an "ocean" depending on the value of the grid square. 